>>>> ENVIRONMENT ::> 
>>  Be it big or small, your actions matter. Save the environment.

>>  What is an environment?
    The environment gives us countless benefits that we can't repay our entire life. As they are connected with the forest, trees, animals, water, and air. The forest and trees filter the air and absorb harmful gases. Plants purify water, reduce the chances of flood maintain natural balance and many others.

>>  Why environment is important?
    Human health and well-being are intimately linked to the state of the environment. Good quality natural environments provide basic needs, in terms of clean air and water, fertile land for food production, and energy and material inputs for production.

>>  What is environment and its types?
    Environment mainly consists of atmosphere, hydrosphere, lithosphere and biosphere.

>>  What are the five major causes of environmental problems?
    The major causes of environmental issues are:
    Pollution.
    Solid Waste.
    Deforestation.
    Global Warming.
    Depletion of Natural Resource.

>>  Solutions to Environmental Issues
    Replace disposal items with reusable items.
    The use of paper should be avoided.
    Conserve water and electricity.
    Support environmental friendly practices.
    Recycle waste to conserve natural resources.





>>> COMMON ::>

>>  USE YOUR VOICE:
    We are the first generation to know we’re destroying the world, and we could be the last that can do anything about it. Speaking up is one of the most powerful things you can do especially if it’s to the right people.
    We’ve been promised a better world – but our leaders are not on track to deliver. We need decisive action now.
    Your voice is powerful. Together, we can show we need urgent action on climate and nature.

>>  BE INFORMED
    One of the best things you can do is to keep yourself informed – the more you know the better. It leaves you better equipped to have those conversations with your friends and family and the people you want to influence. Get yourself clued up on the facts, stay up to date with recent news on the state of our natural world and work out what you can do. 
    We have the world at our fingertips, so learn from influential people, keep up with the news and research organisations that are working to make our planet a better place. 

>>  BE POLITICAL:
    This is an opportunity to vote for someone who is representative of you and your views and will make the environment a top priority.
    Being politically engaged is not limited to voting and it certainly isn’t limited by how young you are. Every year more and more young people are working together to show our political leaders that they want change.
    We need to ensure we hold our politicians accountable. You can do that by contacting your local MP or attending constituency meetings where you will have an opportunity to make your voice heard.

>> TRAVEL RESPONSIBLY:
    One of the most efficient ways of lowering your environmental impact is by travelling responsibly. This means, whenever you can, choosing a more sustainable way to get from A to B - walk or cycle when you can. 
    Transport is one of the most polluting sectors. But holidaying closer to home can make a big impact on your carbon footprint. One short haul return flight can account for 10% of your yearly carbon emissions, and long-haul flights can completely determine your carbon impact.
    If you have the time you can usually get trains to destinations to cut your carbon footprint. Get creative and try to find alternate ways to travel.

>>  EAT SUSTAINABLY:
    Food production is a major driver of wildlife extinction. What we eat contributes around a quarter of global greenhouse gas emissions and is responsible for almost 60% of global biodiversity loss.
    Farming animals for meat and dairy requires space and huge inputs of water and feed. Today, one of the biggest causes of forest loss is the expansion of agricultural land for animal feed production, such as soy. And producing meat creates vastly more carbon dioxide than plants such as vegetables, grains and legumes. 
    Moving away from a meat-dominated diet towards a more plant-based diet can lower your impact on the environment. Vegetarian and vegan foods are massively on the rise and becoming far more common in restaurants, cafes and supermarkets, so you’ll rarely struggle.
    Not only that, but cutting down on meat and dairy products can reduce your weekly food bills. 

>>  REDUCE YOUR WASTE:
    We need to make wasting our resources unacceptable in all aspects of our life.  Every product we buy has an environmental footprint and could end up in landfill. The impact of plastic pollution on our oceans is becoming increasingly clear, having drastic impacts on marine life.
    Recycling what we can reduces the amount of new materials we are making, and upcycling is a creative way to make old items into something more valuable. This could be reusing a jam jar as a candle holder, or using old tins as plant pots – the possibilities are endless!
    It’s not just the products we buy. It’s estimated that a third of all food produced in the world is lost or wasted. Do your bit by eating up leftovers and use any ingredients you have spare to make interesting meals. Try to waste as little food as possible, and compost the organic waste you can’t eat.

>>  WATCH WHAT YOU BUY:
    We can all do more to be more conscious about what we buy, and where we buy it from. Buying less will save you money, reduce waste and improve your environmental footprint. Living a less consumerist lifestyle can benefit you and our planet.
    Use your purchasing power and make sure your money is going towards positive change. By supporting eco-friendly products which are less damaging to the environment, you’re encouraging companies to source and produce their products in a sustainable way.

>>  FIND WAYS TO DONATE:
    Our amazing supporters are helping us to restore nature and tackle the main causes of nature’s decline, particularly the food system and climate change. We rely on generous donations to carry out our projects all around the world.
    There are lots of ways to give. Become a member of WWF, adopt an animal, take on a challenge for Team Panda or encourage your family and friends to donate by setting up a Facebook birthday fundraiser.

>>  READ THE LIVING PLANET REPORT:
    WWF’s most comprehensive study to date, the Living Planet Report 2022, shows global wildlife populations have plummeted by 69% on average since 1970. This means that nature loss is not being halted, let along reversed.
    The solutions exist, but time is running out to act. We're now in a race to bring our world back to life - and we know it's a race we can win. 

>>  VOLUNTEER FOR YOUR WORLD:
    Volunteering can be daunting, and expensive if you don’t know where to look. But it doesn’t need to be this hard to do good.
    Often local nature reserves or parks are looking for regular volunteers, which can give you practical conservation experience as well as helping to restore nature your local area.
    We want everyone to have the opportunity to help and kickstart a career in conservation. 



    

>>>> ATMNOSPHERE ::>
>>  Breathe healthy and be healthy.

>>  What is atmosphere?
    An atmosphere is made of the layers of gases surrounding a planet or other celestial body. Earth's atmosphere is composed of about 78% nitrogen, 21% oxygen, and one percent other gases.

>>  Features of the Atmosphere.
    >   Helps retain the sun’s heat and prevents it from escaping back into space.
    >   Protects life from harmful radiation from the sun.
    >   Plays a major role in Earth’s water cycle.
    >   Helps keep the climate on Earth moderate.
    There is no boundary between the atmosphere and outer space. The atmosphere gets less dense and denser until it “blends” into outer space.

>>  What would happen if the Earth’s Atmosphere disappeared?

    >   Birds and planes would fall from the sky. Although we can’t see air, it has a mass that supports flying objects.
    >   The sky would turn black. The sky gets its colour blue due to the atmosphere. Gases and particles in Earth’s atmosphere scatter sunlight in all directions. Blue light is scattered more than other colours because it travels as shorter, smaller waves. This is why we see a blue sky most of the time.
    >   There would be no sensation of sound. Although you could feel vibrations from the ground you wouldn’t hear anything. Sound requires a medium to travel.
    >   All the water bodies such as rivers, lakes and oceans would boil away. Boiling occurs when the vapour pressure of a liquid exceeds external pressure. In a vacuum, the water readily boils.
    >   Organisms that breathe air to survive would die. 


>>>> HYDROSPHERE ::>
>> Conserve what our children deserve.

>>  What is hydrosphere?
    The hydrosphere is the total quantity of water on a planet. It includes water on the planet’s surface, underground, and in the atmosphere. The hydrosphere of a planet might be liquid, vapour, or ice.

>> Why is the Hydrosphere Important?
    We rarely think about the role of the planet that keeps us alive and take the hydrosphere for granted. The major importance of the hydrosphere is that water sustains various life forms and plays an important role in ecosystems and regulating the atmosphere. Hydrosphere covers all water present on the Earth’s surface. It involves saltwater, freshwater, and frozen water, along with groundwater and water in the lower levels of the atmosphere. The following are the functions of a hydrosphere.

    >   Water is the most important part of living cells
        Every cell in a living organism is built up of about 75% of water, hence allowing the cell to function appropriately. Cells would not be able to carry out normal functions and life cannot exist without water.

    >   Human needs
        Humans use water in many ways. Drinking water is the most obvious use, but it is also used for domestic purposes like washing and cleaning and in industries. Water is also utilised in generating electricity through hydropower.

    >   Water provides habitat
        Hydrosphere provides a place for many plants and animals to live in. Many gasses like CO2, O2, nutrients like ammonium and nitrite(NO–2) as well as other ions are dissolved in water. The presence of these substances is essential for life to exist in water.

    >   Regulate Climate
        The water’s specific heat is its unique characteristic. This indicates that water takes a lot of time to heat up and a lot of time to cool down. It helps in regulating temperatures on earth as they stay in a range that is acceptable for life on earth to exist.
        These are only a few of the functions that water plays on the planet. Many functions relate it to chemistry and methods in which it dissolves substances.


>>>> LITHOSPHERE ::>
>>  Plant trees to make our environment pollution-free. 

>>  What is Lithosphere?
    The lithosphere is the rigid, outermost shell on Earth. It is composed of the crust and the portion of the upper mantle that behaves elastically on time scales of thousands of years or greater. The outermost shell of a rocky planet, the crust, is defined on the basis of its chemistry and mineralogy.

>>  Lithosphere Composition
    The earth’s crust is not a homogeneous substance; it has different layers of rocks including sedimentary rocks on top, granitic and metamorphic rocks in the middle, and basaltic rocks on the bottom.

    The earth’s crust also consists of several large dynamic tectonic plates. These tectonic plates move slowly but continuously at an average rate of around 10 cm. Considering this, there was no Atlantic Ocean, and North America and Europe together were one continent 180 million years ago. The Atlantic Ocean came into being because of the drifting apart from the Eurasian and North American plates.

>>  Types of Lithosphere
    There are two types of lithosphere:

    >   Oceanic: Which is associated with oceanic crust and exists in the ocean basins.
    >   Continental: This is associated with continental crust.




>>>> BIOSPHERE ::>
>>  Stop polluting and start living.

>>  What is Biosphere ?
    The biosphere is made up of the parts of Earth where life exists—all ecosystems. The biosphere extends from the deepest root systems of trees, to the dark environments of ocean trenches, to lush rain forests, high mountaintops, and transition zones like this one, where ocean and terrestrial ecosystems meet.

>>  Importance of Biosphere
    >   The biosphere provides the ecosystem that is needed for survival. Adaptation to the biosphere’s climate is expected for living organisms. Biodiversity thrives within ecosystems, and the biosphere is a reliable source of food on Earth. Biodiversity is just what it sounds like biological variety.

    >    Safe areas for the protection of plants and animals are known as biosphere reserves. It also helps to restore the tribals’ traditional way of life in the region. They protect the region’s biodiversity. The biosphere is the ecological organization’s highest level. It covers all types of life as well as any biome on the earth.

    >   The biosphere functions as the planet’s life support system, assisting in the control of atmospheric composition, soil health, and the hydrological (water) cycle. A indicator of a biome’s contribution to the earth. The biosphere is a narrow zone on the surface of the earth where soil, water, and air combine to sustain life. Life can only occur in this zone.

>>  Biosphere Facts
    >   The biosphere is related to the lithosphere, hydrosphere, and atmosphere, which are all spheres of the physical world. The lithosphere is the Earth’s solid outer layer, which contains rocks, sand, and soil.
    >   The biosphere is characterized as an environment that contains all living organisms and the products of their activities. As a result, it plays a vital role in the conservation of ecosystems, i.e., the life of species and their reciprocal interactions. And the biosphere is critical for climate regulation.
    >   Any of the main greenhouse gases, such as methane, carbon dioxide, and nitrous oxide, are affected by the biosphere.
    >   Various environmental conditions, such as favorable temperature and moisture, are needed for organisms to live on Earth. Energy and nutrients are also needed by the species. The biosphere of the Earth contains all of the mineral and animal nutrients needed for life.